Please describe your experience in analyzing state-of-the-art technologies in order to resolve critical information technology problems with innovative solutions. (2,000 characters)

The success of the software development depends greatly on the choice of technologies, architectural style, and a range of digital services involved in project development and support. In-depth technology analysis is an important instrument that helps the development team develop scalable systems, leverage advantages of new technologies and other software architecture styles, and work out future-proof product strategies.

As a lead developer, part of my job is to find and compare potential new technologies and software solutions, validate them against given business requirements and choose the right ones for the projects. When I receive a new project or problem to solve, first, I analyze the requirements, break down the system into functional components to analyze each module. Then I gather insight and list available technologies, platforms, frameworks, tools that could be used to develop each component (search, peer experience, documentation, professional forums and domain-specific resources, etc.) and review relevant contents. Finally, I make a comparative analysis of technologies based on key criteria ( scalability, flexibility, license, price, availability, reliability, performance, support… etc.) and determine risks and define limitations to make the final decision. 





Please describe your experience with Agile Project Management methodologies. (4,000 characters)

We shifted away from the traditional waterfall software development to agile for all of our projects for the last a few years. We achieved the customer satisfaction, which is our highest priority, through early and continuous delivery of valuable products. 
At the beginning of the agile transformation, we felt disruptive and stressful, but the benefits were clear. The teams that adopted agile process became more creative and innovative. We saw improvements of performance, increasing of customer satisfaction, and employee engagement. 
We have delivered working software frequently from a week to a couple of months with a preference to the shorter time scale. Compare with the old development style where the product was only usable when delivered at the end of the work, during the agile development, we delivered our product frequently and gave our stakeholders the chance to inspect what we have done and to feedback. This, in conjunction with the welcome to change attitude, makes us more likely to deliver products that stakeholders truly want. 
We use Scrum framework in our daily activities. In our Scrum team, the product owner is responsible for creating user stories to maximize the value of the product. The development team is responsible for creating done increments. The Scrum Master is responsible for promoting Scrum and supporting the Scrum Team and remove impediments to the team's progress.
For Sprint planning, we start with a product back log and end with a sprint goal and sprint backlog. For the daily Scrum, we examine progress over the last 24 hours and look to update the sprint backlog and the plan for the next 24 hours. For the sprint review, we look at the Sprint and inspect the increments and then update the product backlog. And finally, for the sprint retrospective, we examine how the sprint went and look for improvements for the next sprint. 
We worked with teams from different components together daily throughout the projects. When we cut the gap between us and work together towards a common goal, we increase the likelihood of creating products that our agency needs, thereby increasing the chances of success. 
With the agile mindset, we were able to boost our productivity, adapt and respond to changes as we progress. It helped with more transparency between team members, improved our products performance. 

